---
title: Projects &amp; Groups
layout: section
---
<div class="row">
  <div class="span3">
    <h2>Growing</h2>
    
    {% include growing.html %}
    
     <p>Transition Tufnell Park Growing has mainly been focused on 'The Secret Garden' - a community allotment project in one persons back garden. We have also started a new community growing project, and other garden shares.
    </p>
    <p><a class="btn" href="#growing">See more &raquo;</a></p>
  </div>
  <div class="span3">
    <h2>Energy</h2>
    
    {% include energy.html %}
    
     <p>We run regular draught busting sessions for local people and, along with other local Transition groups are getting an energy metering project off the ground.</p>
    <p><a class="btn" href="#energy">See more &raquo;</a></p>
 </div>
  <div class="span3">
    <h2>Economy</h2>
    
    {% include economy.html %}
    
    <p>We helped get the local Farmers Market up and running outside the Tufnell Park Tavern every Saturday.</p>
    <p><a class="btn" href="#economy">See more &raquo;</a></p>
  </div>
</div>

<h2>Steering Group</h2>
<p>Meets once a month to plan and co-ordinate our various activities.</p>

<a name="growing"></a>

h1. Growing

Transition Tufnell Park Growing has mainly been focused on 'The Secret Garden' - a community allotment project in one persons back garden.

We have also started a new community growing project, and other garden shares.

Additionally, we have set up plants in the Tufnell Park Tavern, planted bulbs in Tufnell Park Playing with the 'friends of' group, and have partnered with the "Master Gardeners":http://mastergardeners.org.uk/ scheme to give advice to local growers.

*The Secret Garden*
You can come learn how to grow your food, and help us to create a strong crop this year that we can distribute to all who help.

There are regular work days every last Sunday of the month, and other Sundays and Tuesday by arrangement - please come along! And "watch the video on YouTube":http://youtu.be/yW8HnRmSekQ.

RSVP for address and more info: "penny.cloutte@phonecoop.coop":mailto:penny.cloutte@phonecoop.coop.

*Tufnell Park Road Garden*
We have just started working on a new garden on Tufnell Park Road.

We need another couple of people to show a regularish commitment to this garden to turn it into another thriving growing project.

Please let us know if you are interested in being part of this community growing project.

*Garden Share*
Transition Tufnell Park is also embarking on new ways to share your green space in Tufnell Park.

If you don't have a garden and you'd like to do more growing, or if you have a garden which you need some help with - please let us know.

<a name="energy"></a>

h1. Energy

*Draughtbusting*

We can help you "draughtproof your home":http://transitiontufnellpark.org.uk/energy/2012/07/01/draughtbusting.html.

<a name="economy"></a>

h1. Economy

*The Tufnell Park Farmers' Market*

WIth the Tufnell Park Tavern, Transition Tufnell Park have helped to get hundreds of signatures together, with an end of getting the local Farmers Market up and running outside the Tufnell Park Tavern every Saturday.

This is a great way to re-localise, reduce air miles and have less reliance on corporations.

Transition Tufnell Park have non-regular space at the market, where we do things like seed planting, raffles and freeshops.

Other local groups are welcome to use our gazibo and space, whether for local groups, homemade goodies or swap shops.

Please get in touch and invest in this local market.
