---
layout: post
title: What is Permaculture?
author: stefimker
categories: information
tags: permaculture
summary: "It can be best described as a collaborative project in which people around the world collectively design solutions to the problems of building a sustainable future."
---
Permaculture can be best described as a collaborative (wiki-style) project in which people around the world collectively design solutions to the problems of building a sustainable future. Its theory underpins the ideas behind Transition Tufnell Park. 

Rob Hopkins, the founder of the Transition Towns concept, was a Permaculture teacher for 10 years before coming up with his idea of a community-wide response to the issues surrounding Peak-Oil &amp; Climate Change. 

Permaculture has been around since the late 70s, and has since spread from Australia all around the world. It always has a local flavour, as it draws from indigenous knowledge and vernacular styles as well as from current science and modern design. 

Permaculture's strength lies in its strong ethical foundations- Earth Care, People care, Fair Shares- and its many Principles including: collaboration over competition, thoughtful action rather than reaction, valuing the marginal and designing from patterns to details - ideas that people across the globe can use simply wherever they are, and in whatever they’re doing. 

Permaculture is a grassroots movement growing every year, come be part of the solution and Be the change you want to see in the world. We are the ones we’ve been waiting for. Courses: Introduction to Permaculture – 2 days (usually a weekend) Permaculture Design Certificate - 72 hours (usually over 2 weeks or 5 weekends) 

Links:
<a href="http://www.londonpermaculture.com/">Permaculture in London </a>
<a href="www.Naturewise.org.uk">Naturewise (N.W. London)</a>
<a href="www.OrganicLea.org.uk">OrganicLea (N.E. London)</a> 
<a href="http://greenpeasuk.blogspot.com/">Green Peas (south London)</a> 
<a href="http://londonpermaculturalists.ning.com/">Ning social networking site</a>  
<a href="www.permaculture.org.uk">Permaculture Association UK</a>  
<a href="www.permaculture.co.uk%20">Permaculture Magazine</a>
<a href="www.brightonpermaculture.org.uk">Brighton Permaculture Trust</a> 

Beginners books:
Permaculture: A Beginners Guide by Graham Burnett Permaculture in a Nutshell by Patrick Whitefield 

Regular events: 
<a href="http://londonpermaculturalists.ning.com/group/permaculturepicturehouseatpassingclouds">Permaculture Picturehouse</a> - every 1<sup>st</sup> Tuesday of the month
London Permaculture Festival at Cecil Sharp House, NW1, 16<sup>th</sup> July 2011 
Produced by stef - <a href="mailto:info@LondonPermaculture.com">info@LondonPermaculture.com</a>