---
layout: post
top: false
title: The Market
author: terry
kind: home
categories: announcements
tags: [] 
summary: "We are asking for your support" 
---
The market is going really well and has added a lovely focal point for the community as well as encouraging a number of local businesses. We have a number of new stalls starting in the next few weeks, including a Pakistani food stall! We are also hoping to have some Christmas stalls including flowers, holly, wreaths etc. 

We had a big launch day on 15th October attended by the Mayor of Islington, 4 local councilors and several press photographers. We managed to get a piece in the Gazette http://www.facebook.com/transitiontufnellpark. 

We are looking for local people who are keen to ensure the market continues to thrive and who have a bit of spare time to help  to develop and promote the market. If you are one of these people please get in touch with Terry, email <script type="text/javascript">document.write(
"<n uers=\"znvygb:grrcfrznvy\100tznvy\056pbz\">grrcfrznvy\100tznvy\056pbz<\057n>".replace(/[a-zA-Z]/g, function(c){return String.fromCharCode((c<="Z"?90:122)>=(c=c.charCodeAt(0)+13)?c:c-26);}));
</script> or  07740 643 669.

We are also always looking at the potential for new stalls. If you would like to discuss this please get in touch with Kate the Market Manager, email <script type="text/javascript">document.write(
"<n uers=\"znvygb:xngerq101\100ubgznvy\056pbz\">xngerq101\100ubgznvy\056pbz<\057n>".replace(/[a-zA-Z]/g, function(c){return String.fromCharCode((c<="Z"?90:122)>=(c=c.charCodeAt(0)+13)?c:c-26);}));
</script> or 07966 179694.

