---
layout: post
top: false
title: PASSIVHAUS at the Palmerston
author: ds
kind: energy
categories: events
tags: [] 
summary: "7.30pm Upstairs at the Lord Palmerston" 
---

Transitions Dartmouth Park, Kentish Town and Tufnell Park present:

*PASSIVHAUS at the Palmerston*

Architect, Justin Bere, of "Bere:architects":http://www.bere.co.uk/, a leader in ecological and environmental design, will talk about the "Passivhaus":http://www.passivhaus.org.uk/ concept and practice, and how it can improve our homes and the planet.

The domestic sector accounts for approximately 30% of all energy use and more than 25% of CO2 emissions in the UK. It therefore has a critical role in combating climate change, achieving energy security and alleviating fuel poverty.  Old homes are replaced at a rate of less than 1% per annum and there is an urgent need both for energy efficient new building and for the sustainable retrofit of existing housing stock.
 
Compared to standard new build in the UK, a Passive House achieves a 75% reduction in space heating requirements and so can be realistically covered by renewables,  saving on energy bills, reducing CO2 emissions and preserving the planet&rsquo;s dwindling fossil fuels. Moreover, a Passive House can be kept cool when it is hot, is draught-free and evenly warm and provides good, clean air.
 
Justin Bere is one of the UK&rsquo;s leading Passivhaus practitioners, deeply committed to ecological and environmental design.  His practice, Bere Architects, has won many awards. It is notable for its dissemination of Passivhaus expertise to other architects and practitioners and for encouraging UK manufacturing.  Bere Architects has unparalleled expertise in low-cost Passivhaus building techniques.
 
Justin Bere will be talking about the Passivhaus concept at the Lord Palmerston at 7:30 pm on Monday, 19th November. His talk will focus on the use of  Passivhaus design in the retrofit of existing homes and the perceived conflict between architectural and environmental conservation.

7.30pm, Monday 19th November. 

Upstairs at the Lord Palmerston, 
33 Dartmouth Park Hill, NW5 1HU.

This is the latest in a series of events organised as part of the joint Energy Challenge by Transition Towns in Tufnell Park, Kentish Town and Dartmouth Park.
 
_Note this venue is not wheelchair accessible._