---
layout: post
title: "Tufnell Park Gathering"
author: Iain Patton
kind: home
categories: [top, community, events, news]
tags: [] 
summary: "7pm Thursday 19th September, Oak & Pastor"
---
Following the success of the first Meet-Up ‘Tufnell Parkers’ and our close neighbours are invited to get together once again for what will be a monthly shindig to meet the local community, drink , eat, talk and establish a vibrant local supportive and friendly neighbourhood. You never know who’s around the corner. Someone with shared interest’s, a new friend, business contact or more. These events cost nothing to attend and the only agenda is the one we co-create. New ideas are always welcome and as the group grows we can look to introducing new elements to the evening such as a spotlight on local talent where people can show and tell what they work as or talk about something of particular interest. In addition, it’s nice to integrate some music into the evening and entertainment including comedy venue permitting. Please get in touch if you have any ideas or suggestions for future developments. I look forward to see both the original attendees and lots of new faces in September. Please create an online profile with a photo if you’re joining for the first time and answer the questions so we know what lovely people are here and what you do to connect you with the group. To join simply create a profile at www.meetup.com/Tufnell-Park-Gathering and RSVP. There are no costs to attend or join.

*DATE*
19th September

*TIME*
7.00pm

*VENUE*
Oak & Pastor, 86 Junction Road, Tufnell Park/Archway Borders, N19 5QZ

Visit the website: "http://www.meetup.com/Tufnell-Park-Gathering":http://www.meetup.com/Tufnell-Park-Gathering.

 Email: orangebuddha2011@gmail.com.


