---
layout: post
top: 
title: Blue Plaque Launch
author: Jacquelyn
kind: home
categories: [Culture, events, news]
tags: [] 
summary: "10am, leaving Books For Free NW5 for a guided tour of 18 local blue plaques"
---
A Blue Plaque walk with a difference on the 9th March 2013.

We will be starting our walk from the Books For Free bookshop, 147 Fortess Road, Tufnell Park, NW5 2HP at 10am.

All are welcome. So come along!

Our route will take us past 18 authors and poets that have lived or worked in the area. Including Sir John Betjeman, JB Priestley, DH Lawrence, John Keats, Sylvia Plath, Dylan Thomas, HG Wells and George Orwell. We'll be finishing back where we started from in Tufnell Park, where we'll be signing and leaving 10 First Editions of Patternotion for eager collectors to snap up for FREE.

But we're providing you with a little twist........

We'll be placing our own magnetic blue plaques along the way. There will be more than 80 plaques of people nominated by the local community and Patternotion authors. Celebrating what is great about Books and the local area!

We wanted to support the scheme that has taken a beating in the last few weeks. In fact English Heritage's blue plaque scheme has been under threat because of budget cuts ( from £130 million to £92 million).
So why doesn't the local community (especially one with such a rich literary past) take up the reins!

If you'd like to nominate someone in NW5, NW3 or NW1 for a blue plaque then tweet Books For Free at @BooksforFreeNW5 with your suggestion, before the 15th February 2013.

For more info on Alban Low's book 'Patternotion', which we'll be giving away signed copies of on the day, go to: patternotion.blogspot.com

For more info on BFF NW5: booksforfreenw5.posterous.com

*DATE*
9th March 2013

*TIME*
10am

*VENUE*
Books For Free NW5, Fortess Road, Tufnell Park, NW5 2HP

Visit the website: "http://booksforfreenw5.posterous.com":booksforfreenw5.posterous.com.

Email: "mailto:healthyplanetnw5@gmail.com":healthyplanetnw5@gmail.com.


